I"<p>(Written August 3rd, 2017)</p>

<p>People-watching has a bad name; when people say they do it, it’s with a laugh that it’s rude or unbecoming of a courteous human citizen. I think it might be one of the most important things people can do in a public place and let me explain why.
(FYI when I say people-watching, I mean just watching and observing, not cracking jokes and insulting people and how they look. Inherent of people-watching is the tendency to judge, but controlling this is fairly easy in my humble opinion.)</p>

<p>REASON 1:
As babies, how do we learn to do our basic actions? By observing and mimicking our parents.
As kids, how do we learn what is right and wrong in public ? By watching what’s appropriate and what is not.
When we are put into a new situation, for example, a dance performance. How do we know what’s the right move? We watch the choreographer or the person next to us and observe. We imitate and improve upon their actions and make it our own.
How do we learn about our friends, loved ones? We watch how they act in situations, how they react to unexpected events, and how they handle themselves in everyday life.I’m sitting in an airport for the first time by myself. How am I supposed to act to not draw suspicion, to give off the impression that I have been here before, that I’m not a “noob”? I’ve learned from watching, from example, and I know there are certain things to do and certain things not to do so that I can not bring attention to myself and be left alone.</p>

<p>REASON 2:
David Foster Wallace (I’m going to keep referring to his speech, “This is Water”, so just read it if you are an “avid” reader of my blog, of which there are probably 2 of you) talks about how we are hard-wired to think in the first person, to think that we are the center of the universe and to somehow (rather egoistically and self-centered) connect everything that happens in the world to us first, before worrying about anyone else.  Yeah yeah, we all say that we are not self-centered and worry about others first, but I can guarantee that when someone happens to swerve in front of you on the highway, we all start yelling expletives and wondering what the hell is wrong with that person and how they are crazy or a loser or not doing anything important with their lives.</p>

<p>In a public place, just look at the person sitting next to you, or across from you, or really anywhere around you. Imagine how they got there, what they’ve been through, what they’re thinking of, what their life story is. As DFW said, that guy who swerved, maybe it’s “being driven by a father whose little child is hurt or sick in the seat next to him, and he’s trying to rush to the hospital, and he’s in a much bigger, more legitimate hurry than I am - it is actually I who am in his way.” JUST maybe, that could be the case. It could be a 1 out of 1000 times case, but just maybe it could be.</p>

<p>Another benefit is that by maybe doing this, we figure out our prejudices and mistakes. Just because we might see someone in ragged clothes, looking unshaven and maybe not taking care of themselves in appearance, is it written in our DNA to automatically define them as a bum? Nope. It’s how society, maybe not as a direction, but more subliminally, has taught us to think. That person could really be having the best time of his life, happier than the rest of us could ever be, doing what he loves, and maybe just not having the time/resources to buy new clothes or whatever the case may be.  In more extreme cases (not to cause tensions or play on stereotypes), a black man in a hoodie or a brown guy with a turban or a long beard; neither of them have to be gangsters or terrorists.</p>

<p>To watch people and to wonder what the’ve been through, to respect the path they took to get to where they were, to learn from their actions, to realize that we might be making mistakes in how we view our fellow man, and to understand that the world contains a lot more than the 5-foot circle around you, that’s what the importance of people-watching is to me.</p>
:ET